[Docs] Revamp docs for secrets and distributed jobs (#3715)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/running-jobs/environment-variables.rst

- :ref:`User-specified environment variables <user-specified-env-vars>`: Passed by users to tasks, for secrets and arguments.
- :ref:`SkyPilot environment variables <sky-env-vars>`: Predefined by SkyPilot with information about the cluster and task.

.. _user-specified-env-vars:

User-specified environment variables
------------------------------------------------------------------

Passing user-specified environment variables is useful for passing secrets and arguments for ``file_mounts``, ``setup``, and ``run``.

You can specify environment variables to be made available to a task in two ways:

- ``envs`` field (dict) in a :ref:`task YAML <yaml-spec>`

  .. code-block:: yaml

    envs:
      MYVAR: val
  
- ``--env`` flag in ``sky launch/exec`` :ref:`CLI <cli>` (takes precedence over the above)

.. tip::

  If an environment variable is required to be specified with `--env` during
  ``sky launch/exec``, you can set it to empty or ``null`` in task YAML to raise an
  error when it is forgotten to be specified. For example, the ``WANDB_API_KEY``

>   and ``HF_TOKEN`` in the following task YAML:

Reviewer: Can we rephrase like this?

To mark an environment variable as **required** and make SkyPilot forcefully check its existence (errors out if unspecified), set it to an empty string or ``null`` in the task YAML. For example, ``WANDB_API_KEY``
  and ``HF_TOKEN`` in the following task YAML are marked as required:

Author: Good point! Updated.

  .. code-block:: yaml

    envs:
      HF_TOKEN: null
      WANDB_API_KEY:
      MYVAR: val

The ``file_mounts``, ``setup``, and ``run`` sections of a task YAML can access the variables via the ``${MYVAR}`` syntax.

.. _passing-secrets:

Passing secrets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We recommend passing secrets to any node(s) executing your task by first making
> it available in your current shell, then using ``--env`` to pass it to SkyPilot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend passing secrets to any node(s) executing your task by first making
it available in your current shell, then using ``--env SECRET`` to pass it to SkyPilot:
```

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky launch -c mycluster --env HF_TOKEN --env WANDB_API_KEY task.yaml
  $ sky exec mycluster --env WANDB_API_KEY task.yaml

.. tip::

>   When value is not specified for ``--env HF_TOKEN``, SkyPilot reads it from
>   local environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When the value is not specified (e.g., ``--env HF_TOKEN``), SkyPilot reads it from
  local environment variables.
```

Reviewer: How about keeping this sentence & append the above ?
```
   In other words, you do not need to pass the value directly such as ``--env
   WANDB_API_KEY=1234``.
```

.. tip::

  You do not need to pass the value directly such as ``--env

>   WANDB_API_KEY=1234``. When the value is not specified (e.g., ``--env HF_TOKEN``),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  WANDB_API_KEY=1234``. When the value is not specified (e.g., ``--env WANDB_API_KEY``),
```

See complete examples at `llm/vllm/serve.yaml <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/596c1415b5039adec042594f45b342374e5e6a00/llm/vllm/serve.yaml#L4-L5>`_ and `llm/vicuna/train.yaml <https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/596c1415b5039adec042594f45b342374e5e6a00/llm/vicuna/train.yaml#L111-L116>`_.

.. _sky-env-vars:

SkyPilot environment variables
------------------------------------------------------------------

> SkyPilot exports several predefined environment variables for a task's execution, which
> are useful for frameworks that require information about the cluster or task, such as
> torch.distributed, OpenMPI, etc. See examples in :ref:`dist-jobs` and :ref:`managed-jobs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot exports several predefined environment variables made available during a task's execution. These variables contain information about the current cluster or task, which can be useful for distributed frameworks such as
torch.distributed, OpenMPI, etc. See examples in :ref:`dist-jobs` and :ref:`managed-jobs`.
```

> ``setup`` and ``run`` stages have different environment variables available:

Reviewer: Should L234-240 be moved to this overview section?

Author: Done. Moved the lines.

> ``setup`` and ``run`` stages have different environment variables available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``setup`` and ``run`` stages can access different sets of SkyPilot environment variables:
```

     - Rank (an integer ID from 0 to :code:`num_nodes-1`) of the node being set up.
     - 0
   * - ``SKYPILOT_SETUP_NODE_IPS``
     - A string of IP addresses of the nodes in the cluster with the same order as the node ranks, where each line contains one IP address.

>      
>        Note that this is not necessarily the same as the nodes in ``run`` stage, as the ``setup`` stage runs on all nodes of the cluster, while the ``run`` stage can run on a subset of nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     
       Note that this is not necessarily the same as the nodes in ``run`` stage: the ``setup`` stage runs on all nodes of the cluster, while the ``run`` stage can run on a subset of nodes.
```
